you bought yourself a new game that was
on sale on monday
and can't wait to try it out as soon as
the clock strikes 5 pm
you're out of the office and heading
straight home while walking down the
street
you check the feet on your smartphone
and something attracts your attention
breaking news the headline says video
games proven to be dangerous and
the rest of the article's name is hidden
but you shrug it off as another
hype-seeking tabloid you come home
take a shower and make a quick dinner
then you turn on your pc
and double click the new games icon in
anticipation
nothing happens a couple of minutes pass
with no sign of the game launching
so you double click it again still
nothing
okay seems like you'll have to reinstall
it
you open the launcher and that's where
the news catches up with you
on the familiar gray and black
background there's a huge banner saying
please read game ban in effect
you click on the banner and find out
that this week
very disturbing study results have been
confirmed
and video games have been proven
dangerous for public health
with this in mind gaming services
worldwide have been put on hold until
further notice
any already installed games won't launch
since they require connection with the
cloud services
in short no video games are allowed for
an indefinite amount of time
with nothing left to do you go to bed
early in a grumpy mood
two months later the video game ban has
taken quite a toll on millions of people
around the world
the first to feel its effects were
obviously game developers and publishers
within the first month most of them
closed and thousands of people lost
their jobs
some got new ones since other spheres of
i.t and design needed their talents
while others weren't so lucky and had to
change their profile entirely
pc and game console manufacturers didn't
take the ban lightly either
gaming was a flourishing business
bringing them billions of dollars every
year
the hardest hit was perhaps on the
graphics cards manufacturers
for years they've been upgrading their
devices to suit the gamers needs
and now their only customers were
graphics and video designers
game console developers were huge
consortiums anyways
so despite losing a sizable part of
their businesses
they stayed afloat one major japanese
company for example
returned to its roots and began making
profit from card and board games once
again
next to go down were streamers and
youtube content creators
many of them were monetizing their
streams and playthroughs
and without even older games to play
they had to shut down their channels
cyber athletes and tournament organizers
suddenly found themselves without the
thing they did best
the most resourceful ones though found
other niches for themselves
some began making movie and tv show
reviews while
others went into beauty vlogging crazy
life hacks
or simply found more regular jobs
offline
and finally there were simple gamers
people like you and me
who just wanted to enjoy a little
playtime when they had a free hour or
two
modders had to abandon their favorite
hobby and find
something new to indulge in philanthropy
or stamp collecting for example
has experienced a boom unheard of since
the 1980s
thanks to the influx of bored former
gamers
board games were at their all-time high
and tabletop rpgs enjoyed attention
they'd never had before
also people soon found out that oldies
but goodies weren't banned either
things like solitaire minesweeper or
battleship were still allowed
no surprise that in less than a month
they gained renewed popularity
and official tournaments started being
held and broadcast both
offline and online there were shadier
deals too
although the notorious study proved that
all video games were harmful
and called to ban them many people
realized their older game consoles could
be put to use now
those who had their own ones blew dust
from their cds and cartridges
and enjoyed nostalgic times for the rest
underground retro gaming became a thing
quick-witted entrepreneurs
opened up half-legal gaming clubs and
invited people to play older consoles
and arcade machines in cellars and deep
within downtown alleys
cds and cartridges as well as retro
consoles themselves
became a much sought-after rarity
official stores
obviously stopped selling them much
earlier in favor of new ones
but after the ban second-hand sales
skyrocketed
before only avid collectors were eager
to cough up hefty sums
for some rare game or console edition
now
even ordinary people longing for their
favorite pastime
were ready to pay twice or even three
times the money those things really cost
at first even big digital markets like
ebay
allowed anyone to buy and sell gaming
goods but soon
such trading was banned too and people
went to smaller more discreet platforms
all this time however the news was
flying crazy around the topic
there were wild speculations about the
origins and methods of the study
heated discussions were held both at
night shows and in the prime time on tv
and the internet some experts argued
that the ban was a hasty decision
that required thorough examination
others were firm believers that games
should have been banned long ago
lots of parents of teenagers rejoiced
when their kids were forced to stop
playing online games their joy didn't
last long though
only about half the teenagers left
without gaming
turned to books and studying the other
half unfortunately
resorted to less civilized activities as
a result
parents of those kids signed a petition
to lift the ban
which gained huge popularity very
quickly
tensions were rising and after another
month it became obvious that the world
wouldn't ever be the same anymore
clandestine gaming club network was
growing giving trouble to the police
who couldn't find and close them all
state-of-the-art computer parts rapidly
fell
in price and newest game consoles were
hastily repurposed
and sold for a fraction of their cost as
media stations
experts were starting to talk about
another great economic crisis
but then a news flash appeared it said
that a small
team of developers made a game that was
actually beneficial for health
it was soon recognized worldwide and a
new round of discussions began
a novel approach was born and it was
literally a game changer
it gave rise to a new era of video
gaming
and after another half year companies
both small
and large started opening again things
began looking up once more
until year 2022
it's friday at last and you can't wait
to go home and play that new game your
favorite developer has finally launched
you go out of the office and on your way
home you scroll the feed on your
smartphone
a piece of news grabs your attention
almost immediately
breaking news it says action movies
prove deteriorating for health and
you think a moment of opening the
article but then decide not to
after all your new game is waiting for
you at home and
that's what matters to you now